A secret to be uncovered. A trail to be followed.
While the clip was focused on a Listening Post, it also shows a local star believed to be either an M, K for G class, the nearby star systems as well as the Large and Small Magellanic Clouds in the background.

Almost immediately efforts were undertaken to try to identify a possible system that the Listening Post may be located in, by identifying the most visible stars and lining up star positions relative to the Magellanic Clouds.

Barely 3 hours later, a “Communications Beacon” was discovered by CMDR DoZza_nCuXoZzA, in the Jungkurara system, orbiting body A 3. Scanning the “Communications Beacon” gave the following message:

AWIGNC8SKH GL8SAJSDY
No progress was made in decoding the message for nearly two days, until approximately 12:00 UGT on the 30th August 3311, when Professor Frank Raddix sent a message requesting help:

HELP FIND MY MISSING STUDENT!
There are only 5 systems within a 10Ly radius of the Col 285 Sector TQ-A b15-4 system, and one of those happens to be where the previous message was discovered, in the Jungkurara system.

Jungkurara
Upon entering the Jungkurara system and rescanning the Communication Beacon in orbit of body A 3, a more complete version of the original message will be received:
(Note: The other systems had been checked and nothing of note was found in them.)

I THINK I’VE FOUND SOMETHING!
At first glance, the last line appears to be Binary, however when attempting to decode it, the result ends up as: FNF6

This result is obviously not correct, as the number of recognisable characters does not match the number of binary blocks. The previous line before the binary is the key here, as the binary is reversed. When we reserve the binary from the message, and then attempt to decode it, we now get the result: Albarib

Decoded example using the Canonn Decryptor

A quick search in the Galaxy Map reveals that Albarib is a system, and appears to be our next target.

Albarib
Upon entering the Albarib system, a Point of Interest named “Z2A-4” can be found on body A 1, which is revealed to be a Crashed Type 9. At this point an SRV will be required, and after scanning the Crashed Ship’s Data Core another log will be received:

(Note: If you scan the Comms Control, you will only receive a message from the Professor, and not the required message below.)

WE’VE BEEN ATTACKED!
Along with a message from Professor Raddix:

WHAT IS TERRI UP TO?
In the message from Alex, there is a “bunch of letters“: kjmpk rppq omplozbk, and a two-stage encryption mentioned.

Along with Alex also mentioning that Terri has said “to use our ship as the key”, it was quickly figured out that the POI name “Z2A-4” could be used as a decryption key, first by applying an Atbash cipher (Z↔A), and then using Caesar cipher with a −4 shift. This gives us the result: turot moon prospect

Decoded example using the Canonn Decryptor

Searching in the Galaxy Map reveals that Turot is a system, and that Moon Prospect is a surface outpost in the Turot system, which is our next destination.

Turot
Upon entering the Turot system and travelling to Moon Prospect on body 1 a, a Communications Beacon can be found on the surface approx. 2.5km from the port, again an SRV will be required and upon scanning the Communications Beacon the following message will be received:

GETTING CLOSER TO THE TRUTH
At the end of the message there is a string of numbers 24 9 18 9 25 1 14 15 1 18, and by converting these numbers with an A1Z26 cipher / Letter Number Code, we get the result: Xiriyanoar

Decoded example using the Canonn Decryptor

If we search the Galaxy Map, we find that there is a Xiriyanoar system, and again journey onwards.

Xiriyanoar
Upon entering the Xiriyanoar system, a Listening Post can be found orbiting body B 1, and after scanning it we receive the following message:

THEY MIGHT BE ON TO ME!
Along with another message from Professor Raddix:

I HOPE SHE’S SAFE!
The last line in the message from Terri, mentions: “Lefthand side of the Knowledge Base, 6th entry, 5th paragraph.”

If we follow these instructions, it takes us to the Generation Ships entry, and the following paragraph:
"The first exception was the Golconda, discovered in the Upaniklis system with a functional colony on board, giving hope that not all generation ships still in transit will be lost causes."

Log Image: Codex Snippet – Generation Ships

As mentioned in the paragraph, the Upaniklis system was where the Golconda had previously been discovered, and as well as bring the only system named in the paragraph, it appears to be our next destination.

More information about the Golconda can be found in our article: The Golconda

Upaniklis
Upon entering the Upaniklis system, a Communications Beacon can be found orbiting near the rings of body A 1, and after scanning it we receive the following message:

THERE’S A SECRET THEY DON’T WANT US TO KNOW
When reading the message, there appears to be 5 lines of jumbled characters, and once again, the last line of the readable message is the key to decoding them.

If we take each line of jumbled characters and try to decode them individually, by using a Vigenere cipher and using doubt as the keyword, which was alluded to in the message, we get the following results:

vodyakamana three
nukamba one
marfic four
graffias two
upaniklis five

Decoded example using the Canonn Decryptor

Five system names, including the one where the message was found. If we now format them to be easier to read and re-order them according to the numbers provided, we get the following:

1 – Nukamba
2 – Graffias
3 – Vodyakamana
4 – Marfic
5 – Upaniklis

We now have the route that our target megaship is expected to travel along, starting with the Nukamba system, at 18:00 UGT / 31st August 3311.

There was a thought that the numbers could be indicating a body ID within the listed systems, however that turned out not to be the case as two of the systems ( Graffias and Marfic ) only have a pair of stars in them.

Part 2 – 31st Aug
Cygnus
At approximately 18:00 UGT / 31st August 3311, a Point of Interest named “Cygnus” appeared in the Nukamba system.

Upon entering the POI, it was discovered to be a Beckett-class Science Vessel, and when scanning the Ship Log Uplink, the following travel itinerary was received:

COMPLETE CYGNUS MANIFEST
When checking the manifest, it should be noted that while the five previously listed systems are present, there are also two additional systems listed: HR 6524 / Col 359 Sector AE-N b9-4

Also noted in the manifest is a “OCTOBER ENCRYPTION ERROR“. At it was unknown what this error may be, if anything, however later on it was believed to be an 8th system with its system name still encrypted.


Cygnus – Becket-class Science Vessel – orbiting body A 2 in the Nukamba system
Tracking the Cyngus
Shortly after the Cygnus had been discovered, there was a report at approximately 22:00 UGT / 31st August 3311 that the megaship was no longer present in the Nukamba system, and was confirmed that just 4 hours after it had originally appeared, the Cygnus had vanished.

An effort to try to find the Cygnus was undertaken by search the system listed in its itinerary, however the megaship was unable to be located. This was something that Terri had alluded to in her previous message, when she stated that: “you will only be able to locate the ship in the target systems in short intervals“.

The Cygnus re-appeared 8 hours later in the Graffias system at 06:00 UGT / 1st September 3311.

The Cygnus was estimated to leave the Graffias system at 10:00 UGT, this time was based on how long it had stayed for in the Nukamba system, however it had disappeared and believed to have moved earlier than estimated, somewhere between 09:00 – 09:30.

The Cygnus then reappeared in the Graffias system at approximately 12:40 UGT, before departing at approximately 15:00 UGT.

The Cygnus did not seem to travel to the Vodyakamana system, possibly skipping the system entirely.

The Cygnus was spotted in the Marfic system at approximately 06:00 UGT / 2nd September 3311, and by approximately 10:30 UGT the Cygnus had departed again.

The Cygnus arrived in the Upaniklis system at 18:00 UGT / 2nd September 3311, and was estimated to depart at approximately 22:00 for its next system. However, Cygnus was present until approximately 12:00 UGT / 3rd September, at which point the Cygnus departed the Upaniklis system.

Shortly after departing its previous system, the Cygnus arrived in the HR 6524 system, at approximately 12:15 UGT / 3rd September. The Cygnus then departed the HR 6524 system at approximately 15:00 UGT.

The Cygnus arrived in the Col 359 Sector AE-N b9-4 system at approximate 10:00 UGT / 4th September.

Below is a table with the tracked arrival and departure times. All times are displayed in UGT (Universal Galactic Time):

System	Body	Status	Arrival	Departure
Nukamba	A 2	Departed	31st Aug
18:00	31st Aug
22:00
Graffias	A	Departed	1st Sep
06:00	1st Sep
09:00 – 09:30
Graffias	A	Departed	1st Sep
12:40	1st Sep
15:00
Vodyakamana	–	Skipped	–	–
Marfic	A	Departed	2nd Sep
06:00	2nd Sep
10:30
Upaniklis	A 2 a	Departed	2nd Sep
18:00	3rd Sep
12:00
HR 6524	1 a	Departed	3rd Sep
12:15	3rd Sep
15:00
Col 359 Sector AE-N b9-4	A 2	Arrived	4th Sep
10:00	TBD
HIP 87621	TBD	TBD	TBD	TBD
information c/o CMDR SERIOUSAM_7
The Orion
Upon travelling to the HR 6524 system another Point of Interest was found, this time named “The Orion”, orbiting body 1 a. When dropping into said POI, it is revealed to be a Sanchez-class Science Vessel, and when scanning the Ship Log Uplink, the following message was received:

CYGNUS IS LATE. AGAIN.
The message from The Orion states: “I don’t know why the Captain of the Cygnus is so sloppy“, and along with the message title: “Cygnus is Late. Again“, both could possibly help explain why the Cygnus was difficult to keep track of.

Once again, the Col 359 Sector AE-N b9-4 system is mentioned, and will be our next destination, however it also mentions a “target system” which is believed to be the still encrypted system name in the Cygnus’ manifest.


The Orion – Sanchez-class Science Vessel – orbiting body 1 a in the HR 6524 system
After travelling to the Col 359 Sector AE-N b9-4 system, a Communications Beacon similar to the ones previously scanned can be found orbiting body A 3 a, and scanning it give the following message:

I’VE FOUND IT
As well as another message from the Professor:

WHAT DID SHE FIND?!
With Terri’s message mentioning a permit lock, and the Professor’s message also mentioning that “there’s a permit-locked system neighbouring this one“, when checking the neighbouring systems via the ships external interface with the systems filter enabled, we can see that there is indeed a permit locked system nearby, HIP 87621, which just 12.10 Ly’s away from the system that the Communications Beacons was found in.

It is believed that the HIP 87621 system was the system name that was still encrypted in the Cygnus’ manifest, also with being mentioned as the “target system” in the message from The Orion.

It was also noted that the Professor’s message seems to be missing two words (the missing words are highlighted): “you’ll hear from me again once I find out something useful“. Currently, it is unknown if this is intentional, or simply an error.


Furthermore, upon checking the local systems after scanning the Communications Beacon, it was noted that an area of 37 Ly’s in radius around the HIP 87621 system, consisting of 245 systems, has been deemed to be no longer suitable for colonisation.

After the rendezvous of both megaships in the Col 359 Sector AE-N b9-4 system, it is suspected that “the target system“, as mentioned in The Orion’s message, is indeed the permit locked HIP 87621 system.

However, as mentioned in Terri’s message, the HIP 87621 system has been permit locked for years, and with one or both megaships possibly travelling there, it now leaves us with the questions of: What is in the HIP 87621 system, and what did Terri Tori find?

On the 2nd September 3311, a Galnet was released confirming that Terri Tora’s final location is in the HIP 87621 system.